Updated Match Patterns (#7215)
GoogleChrome/developer.chrome.com: site/en/docs/extensions/mv3/match_patterns/index.md

title: 'Match patterns'
seoTitle: 'Chrome Extensions match patterns'
date: 2012-09-18
updated: 2023-08-31
description: Understanding URL match patterns in Chrome extensions.
---

A match pattern is a URL with the following structure, used to specify a group of URLs:

```text
&lt;scheme&gt;://&lt;host&gt;/&lt;path&gt;
```

> - **scheme**: Must be one of `'http'`, `'https'`, `'file'`, `'ftp'`, or `'urn'`. The wildcard `*` only matches `http` or `https`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**scheme**: Must be one of `'http'`, `'https'`, `'file'`, `'ftp'`, or `'urn'`. The wildcard `*` only matches `http` or `https`.
```

Reviewer: The run-in heading does an adequate job of making this scannable, so that nested bullets aren't needed.

  - For information on injecting content scripts into unsupported schemes, such as `about:` and `data:`, see [Injecting in related frames][cs-frames].
  - The scheme must be separated from the rest of the pattern using a double slash (`//`).

> - **host**: A hostname (`www.example.com`), a `*` before the hostname to match subdomains (`*.example.com`), or just a wildcard `*`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**host**: A hostname (`www.example.com`). A `*` before the hostname to match subdomains (`*.example.com`), or just a wildcard `*`.
```

  - If you use a wildcard in the host pattern, it must be the first or only character, and it must be followed by a period (`.`) or forward slash (`/`).

> - **path**: Must contain at least a forward slash. The slash by itself is treated as a wildcard `/*`. Other examples include the following:

Reviewer: @AmySteam do you know what the `/*` is trying to tell me?

Reviewer: @AmySteam

Reviewer 2: > '/' means the same thing as '/*', but do we really need to tell people that? It's what linguist Bryan Garner would call a [needless variant](https://www.cjr.org/analysis/there_ought_to_be_alternative.php#:~:text=might%20call%20a%20%E2%80%9C-,needless%20variant,-%E2%80%9D%3A%20%E2%80%9Ctwo%20or%20more)

It's just more explicit for developers to know if you add `*.example.com/`, it will also match `*.example.com/foo` and `*.example.com/bar`, not just `www.example.com`.

I think when it comes to match patterns, it's okay to be explicit.  But at this point I'm ready to agree with anything ya'll decide.

Author: Is this phrasing better?

Reviewer 2: ![image](https://github.com/GoogleChrome/developer.chrome.com/assets/37001393/7eaee830-4b7a-4b24-a9a1-2ff473c5084a)

> - **path**: Must contain at least a forward slash. The slash by itself is treated as a wildcard `/*`. Other examples include the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**path**: Must contain at least a forward slash. The slash by itself is treated as a wildcard `/*`. For example:
```

  * `/foo*`
  * `/foo/bar`.

> Extensions use match patterns for a variety of purposes, including declaring [host permissions][host-permissions] and other permissions for Chrome APIs or [content script][content-scripts] injection, as well as [`"web_accessible_resources.matches"`][war] and [`"externally_connectable.matches"`][ext-connect].

Reviewer: This seems like it should be a bulleted list. 

@oliverdunk @AmySteam Are we missing any places where match patterns can be used?

Reviewer 3: I can't think of any others - thanks for checking!

Author: To clean up the bullet list structure: what do WAR and Externally Connectable do with the match patterns? It sounds to me like those aren't part of the declaring permissions part of the sentence.

Reviewer: The match patterns are for URLs. They effectively grant access permission to URLs.

Author: Updated. How's this?

Reviewer: That looks good. Can you make it a bulleted list?

Reviewer 2: ## Original

So originally I separated the permissions part with the "Other ways that extensions use match patterns".

<img width="733" alt="Screenshot 2023-09-08 at 16 28 28" src="https://github.com/GoogleChrome/developer.chrome.com/assets/37001393/d4557bbe-4619-4fe3-b264-5c67981e5cc4">
 
## New approach

The new approach groups it all together as "permissions", which is not accurate.

<img width="623" alt="Screenshot 2023-09-08 at 16 27 37" src="https://github.com/GoogleChrome/developer.chrome.com/assets/37001393/adad857d-a88a-4f36-81b6-ae60de63c43f">

## Explanation

The match patterns under **web accessible resources** declare which websites can access specific resources that are bundled with the Chrome extension.

The match patterns under "externally_connectable" declare which websites can send and receive messages from the Chrome extension. 

These last two use cases IMO don't have anything to do with permissions.

## What problem are we solving?

I think the original version was clear enough without the need of a rewrite. I'm still confused about what problem we are solving with rewriting this section

Author: That was my question.
I was asked to make that long sentence into a bulleted list to make it easier to read. To do that, I needed to understand  how all the use cases related to each other, and specifically whether those last two use cases had anything to do with permissions. I misinterpreted the previous answer to that question as "yes, these are all about permissions," which is how I ended up with that list.

I'd still like to understand what WAR and Externally Connectable are and how they use match patterns, but I don't need that information to fix the list.

Reviewer 2: **Match pattern use explanation**

- The match patterns under web accessible resources declare which URLs are allowed to access specific resources that are bundled with the Chrome extension.

- The match patterns under "externally_connectable" declare which URLS are allowed to send and receive messages from the Chrome extension.

Author: So is it useful to say, for example, "Granting access to [web-accessible resources]" and "Allowing message sending and receiving using [`"externally_connectable.matches"`]" in the list?

Reviewer 2: > So is it useful to say, for example, "Granting access to [web-accessible resources]" and "Allowing message sending and receiving using [`"externally_connectable.matches"`]" in the list?

This sounds like a good idea 👍.

Author: > > So is it useful to say, for example, "Granting access to [web-accessible resources]" and "Allowing message sending and receiving using [`"externally_connectable.matches"`]" in the list?
> 
> This sounds like a good idea 👍.

Done in the new commit.

## Special cases {: #special }

> `<all_urls>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`"<all_urls>"`
```

Reviewer: Quotes are part of the syntax of this items.

: Matches any URL that starts with a permitted scheme, including any pattern listed under [valid patterns](#valid-examples). Because it affects all hosts, Chrome web store reviews for extensions that use it [may take longer](/docs/webstore/review-process/#review-time-factors).

> `file:///`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`"file:///"`
```

Reviewer: @oliverdunk @AmySteam This looks to me like it should only have two slashes.

Reviewer 2: I've always used three slashes on local files in extensions. This works in my samples.
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File_URI_scheme

Reviewer 3: I agree it's slightly weird, but I think three is right. The first two are the protocol (similar to http://) and the last one is for the slash at the start of a file path.

Reviewer: @wizardofdocs I added some text to the definition to explain this.

> : Allows your extension to run on local files. This pattern has no host and requires the user to manually [grant access][permissions-allow-access].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: Allows your extension to run on local files. This pattern requires the user to manually [grant access][permissions-allow-access].
```

Reviewer: File URLs never have a host.

  - The scheme must be separated from the rest of the pattern using a double slash (`//`).

**host**: A hostname (`www.example.com`). A `*` before the hostname to match subdomains (`*.example.com`), or just a wildcard `*`.
  - If you use a wildcard in the host pattern, it must be the first or only character, and it must be followed by a period (`.`) or forward slash (`/`).

**path**: Must contain at least a forward slash. The slash by itself is treated as a wildcard `/*`. For example:
* `/` or `/*`
* `/foo*`
* `/foo/bar`

Extensions use match patterns for a variety of purposes, including declaring [host permissions][host-permissions] and other permissions for Chrome APIs or [content script][content-scripts] injection, as well as [`"web_accessible_resources.matches"`][war] and [`"externally_connectable.matches"`][ext-connect].

## Special cases {: #special }

`"<all_urls>"`
: Matches any URL that starts with a permitted scheme, including any pattern listed under [valid patterns](#valid-examples). Because it affects all hosts, Chrome web store reviews for extensions that use it [may take longer](/docs/webstore/review-process/#review-time-factors).

`file:///`

> : Allows your extension to run on local files. This pattern requires the user to manually [grant access][permissions-allow-access].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: Allows your extension to run on local files. This pattern requires the user to manually [grant access][permissions-allow-access]. Note that this case requires three slashes, not two.
```

Reviewer: This link is broken. Please add this to the list at the bottom:

[permissions-allow-access]: /docs/extensions/mv3/declare_permissions/#allow_access

Author: I think I've fixed it. Anything else I need to add?

title: 'Match patterns'
seoTitle: 'Chrome Extensions match patterns'
date: 2012-09-18
updated: 2023-08-31
description: Understanding URL match patterns in Chrome extensions.
---

A match pattern is a URL with the following structure, used to specify a group of URLs:

```text
&lt;scheme&gt;://&lt;host&gt;/&lt;path&gt;
```

**scheme**: Must be one of `'http'`, `'https'`, `'file'`, `'ftp'`, or `'urn'`. The wildcard `*` only matches `http` or `https`.
  - For information on injecting content scripts into unsupported schemes, such as `about:` and `data:`, see [Injecting in related frames][cs-frames].
  - The scheme must be separated from the rest of the pattern using a double slash (`//`).

**host**: A hostname (`www.example.com`). A `*` before the hostname to match subdomains (`*.example.com`), or just a wildcard `*`.

>   - If you use a wildcard in the host pattern, it must be the first or only character, and it must be followed by a period (`.`) or forward slash (`/`).

Reviewer 3: Is this right? Later in the same article we talk about things like `/foo*`.

Reviewer: I don't know. @AmySteam?

Reviewer: @AmySteam

Reviewer 2: The  `/foo*` example below is for the **_path_**, not the **_host_**. So this is correct.

title: 'Match patterns'
seoTitle: 'Chrome Extensions match patterns'
date: 2012-09-18
updated: 2023-08-31
description: Understanding URL match patterns in Chrome extensions.
---

A match pattern is a URL with the following structure, used to specify a group of URLs:

```text
&lt;scheme&gt;://&lt;host&gt;/&lt;path&gt;
```

> **scheme**: Must be one of `'http'`, `'https'`, `'file'`, `'ftp'`, or `'urn'`. The wildcard `*` only matches `http` or `https`.

Reviewer 3: Are we sure about `urn`?

Reviewer: I'm trying to find out.

Reviewer: If I understood Devlin correctly, this is the correct list of schemes. https://source.chromium.org/chromium/chromium/src/+/main:extensions/common/url_pattern.cc;l=31-52;drc=8c08dd32bf007ca09f57b63b6b812478b44ac2c4

Author: Updated. Does it still need the single quotes?

Reviewer: I'd say no quotes. I insist on quotes for manifest keys because they're part of what actually needs to be in the manifest. Quotes aren't part of a URL scheme.

Author: Done.

  - For information on injecting content scripts into unsupported schemes, such as `about:` and `data:`, see [Injecting in related frames][cs-frames].
  - The scheme must be separated from the rest of the pattern using a double slash (`//`).

**host**: A hostname (`www.example.com`). A `*` before the hostname to match subdomains (`*.example.com`), or just a wildcard `*`.
  - If you use a wildcard in the host pattern, it must be the first or only character, and it must be followed by a period (`.`) or forward slash (`/`).

**path**: Must contain at least a forward slash. The slash by itself matches any path, as if it were followed by a wildcard (`/*`).

Extensions use match patterns in a variety of use cases, including the following:

* Injecting [content script][content-scripts].
* [Declaring host permissions][host-permissions] that some Chrome APIs require in addition to their own permissions.

> * Granting access to [web-accessible resources][war]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Granting access to [web-accessible resources][war].
```

* Allowing message sending and receiving using ["externally_connectable.matches"][ext-connect].

## Special cases {: #special }

`"<all_urls>"`
: Matches any URL that starts with a permitted scheme, including any pattern listed under [valid patterns](#valid-examples). Because it affects all hosts, Chrome web store reviews for extensions that use it [may take longer](/docs/webstore/review-process/#review-time-factors).

`"file:///"`
: Allows your extension to run on local files. This pattern requires the user to manually [grant access][permissions]. Note that this case requires three slashes, not two.

Localhost URLs and IP addresses

> : To match any localhost port during development, use `http://localhost:*/*`. Specify a port using the port number, as in `http://localhost:8080`.  For IP addresses, specify the address plus a wildcard in the path, as in `http://127.0.0.1/*`. You can also use `http://*:*/*` to match localhost, IP addresses, and any port.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
: To match any localhost port during development, use `http://localhost:*/*`. Specify a port using the port number, as in `http://localhost:8080/*`.  For IP addresses, specify the address plus a wildcard in the path, as in `http://127.0.0.1/*`. You can also use `http://*:*/*` to match localhost, IP addresses, and any port.
```

Top Level domain match patterns

> : Chrome doesn't support match patterns for [top Level domains (TLD)][mdn-tld]. Specify your match patterns within individual TLDs, as in `http://google.es/*` and `http://google.fr/*`.

Reviewer 3: What does this mean? That you can't have `*.co.uk`?

Author: The original says you can't do `google.*`. `*.example.com` is allowed.

Reviewer: It would need to be `*://*.co.uk`, which is [in one of our unit tests](https://source.chromium.org/chromium/chromium/src/+/main:extensions/common/url_pattern_unittest.cc;l=1056;drc=707b3abc38ded8ab7eb0fa21664b1556324929b4). I'm told that gets the same result as `<all_urls>`. So, should we care?

Reviewer: @oliverdunk

Reviewer 2: The TLDs section was ported directly from the extension's FAQs article. This may have been so in an older version of Chrome, since @oliverdunk has been able to test that content scripts can be injected into TLDs match patterns.

Reviewer: @AmySteam, I didn't follow that.

Reviewer: @oliverdunk told me over chat that the current text is fine.l

## Example patterns {: #examples }

`https://*/*` or `https://*/`
: Matches any URL using the `https` scheme.

`https://*/foo*`
: Matches any URL using the `https` scheme, on any host, with a path that starts with `foo`. Examples of matches include `https://example.com/foo/bar.html` and `https://www.google.com/foo`.

`https://*.google.com/foo*bar`
: Matches any URL using the `https` scheme, on a google.com host, with a path that starts with `foo` and ends with `bar`. Examples of matches include `https://www.google.com/foo/baz/bar` and `https://docs.google.com/foobar`.

`file:///foo*`
: Matches any local file whose path starts with `foo`. Examples of matches include `file:///foo/bar.html` and `file:///foo`.

`http://127.0.0.1/*` or `http://127.0.0.1/`
: Matches any URL that uses the `http` scheme and is on the host 127.0.0.1. Examples of matches include `http://127.0.0.1/` and `http://127.0.0.1/foo/bar.html`.

`http://localhost/*`
: Matches any localhost port.

`*://mail.google.com/` or `*://mail.google.com/*`
: Matches any URL that starts with `http://mail.google.com` or `https://mail.google.com`.

`urn:*`

> : Matches any URL that starts with `urn:`. Examples of matches include `rn:uuid:54723bea-c94e-480e-80c8-a69846c3f582`.

Reviewer 3: We should drop this if it doesn't work (it doesn't as far as I can tell from testing).

Author: Removed.

seoTitle: 'Chrome Extensions match patterns'
date: 2012-09-18
updated: 2023-08-31
description: Understanding URL match patterns in Chrome extensions.
---

A match pattern is a URL with the following structure, used to specify a group of URLs:

```text
&lt;scheme&gt;://&lt;host&gt;/&lt;path&gt;
```

**scheme**: Must be one of `'http'`, `'https'`, `'file'`, `'ftp'`, or `'urn'`. The wildcard `*` only matches `http` or `https`.
  - For information on injecting content scripts into unsupported schemes, such as `about:` and `data:`, see [Injecting in related frames][cs-frames].
  - The scheme must be separated from the rest of the pattern using a double slash (`//`).

**host**: A hostname (`www.example.com`). A `*` before the hostname to match subdomains (`*.example.com`), or just a wildcard `*`.
  - If you use a wildcard in the host pattern, it must be the first or only character, and it must be followed by a period (`.`) or forward slash (`/`).

**path**: Must contain at least a forward slash. The slash by itself is treated as a wildcard `/*`. For example:
* `/` or `/*`
* `/foo*`
* `/foo/bar`

Extensions use match patterns in a variety of use cases, including the following:

> * [Declaring permissions](/docs/extensions/mv3/declare_permissions) for Chrome APIs and [content script][content-scripts] injection

Reviewer: +1

`https://*.google.com/foo*bar`
: Matches any URL using the `https` scheme, on a google.com host, with a path that starts with `foo` and ends with `bar`. Examples of matches include `https://www.google.com/foo/baz/bar` and `https://docs.google.com/foobar`.

`file:///foo*`
: Matches any local file whose path starts with `foo`. Examples of matches include `file:///foo/bar.html` and `file:///foo`.

`http://127.0.0.1/*` or `http://127.0.0.1/`
: Matches any URL that uses the `http` scheme and is on the host 127.0.0.1. Examples of matches include `http://127.0.0.1/` and `http://127.0.0.1/foo/bar.html`.

`http://localhost/*`
: Matches any localhost port.

`*://mail.google.com/` or `*://mail.google.com/*`
: Matches any URL that starts with `http://mail.google.com` or `https://mail.google.com`.

`urn:*`
: Matches any URL that starts with `urn:`. Examples of matches include `rn:uuid:54723bea-c94e-480e-80c8-a69846c3f582`.

[content-scripts]: /docs/extensions/mv3/content_scripts
[cs-frames]: /docs/extensions/mv3/content_scripts/#injecting-in-related-frames
[ext-connect]: /docs/extensions/mv3/manifest/externally_connectable/#manifest
[mdn-tld]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Glossary/TLD

> [permissions]: /docs/extensions/mv3/declare_permissions/#allow_access

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[permissions]: /docs/extensions/mv3/declare_permissions/#allow_access
[host-permissions]: /docs/extensions/mv3/declare_permissions/#host-permissions
```
Fix broken link

title: 'Match patterns'
seoTitle: 'Chrome Extensions match patterns'
date: 2012-09-18
updated: 2023-08-31
description: Understanding URL match patterns in Chrome extensions.
---

A match pattern is a URL with the following structure, used to specify a group of URLs:

```text
&lt;scheme&gt;://&lt;host&gt;/&lt;path&gt;
```

**scheme**: Must be one of the following, separated from the rest of the pattern using a double slash (`//`):

> - `http`
> - `https`
> - A wildcard `*`, which matches only `http` or `https`
> - `file`
> - `ftp`
> - `chromeui`
> - `extension`
> - `filesystem`
> - `ws`
> - `wss`
> - `data`
> - `uuid_in_package`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `http`
- `https`
- A wildcard `*`, which matches only `http` or `https`
- `file`
```
@wizardofdocs @jpmedley 
Could we apply this change before merging? [Here's the conversation where we agreed to simplify this list](https://github.com/GoogleChrome/developer.chrome.com/pull/7215#discussion_r1352008813)

&lt;scheme&gt;://&lt;host&gt;/&lt;path&gt;
```

**scheme**: Must be one of the following, separated from the rest of the pattern using a double slash (`//`):

- `'http'`
- `'https'`
- A wildcard `*`, which matches only `http` or `https`
- `'file'`
- `'ftp'`
- `'chromeui'`
- `'extension'`
- `'filesystem'`
- `'ws'`
- `'wss'`

> - `'data'`

Reviewer 2: I'm a bit uncomfortable adding all these scheme's because I know that extensions have restrictions. For example, what is the 'extension' scheme? If it's `chrome-extension://` URLs, these are not valid for content script injection.

Reviewer: This list came from source code: https://source.chromium.org/chromium/chromium/src/+/main:extensions/common/url_pattern.cc;l=31-52;drc=8c08dd32bf007ca09f57b63b6b812478b44ac2c4

You're probably right about extension UI. (And a few other probably need to be spelled differently.) But confirm that in code yet.

Reviewer 3: Notes:

- Chrome no longer supports FTP so I don't think `ftp` makes sense.
- I'm not familiar with (and couldn't find) any use case for `chromeui`. It seems internal so I would remove.
- The same for `extension` and `filesystem`.
- Looking at the code, we don't seem to actually support `data` in any APIs, so I would remove that.
- `uuid_in_package` was removed here: https://groups.google.com/a/chromium.org/g/blink-dev/c/iyhes6tMz2Y

So I think the full list should be:

```
http
https
A wildcard *, which matches only http or https
file
```

Reviewer: +1

**host**: A hostname (`www.example.com`). A `*` before the hostname to match subdomains (`*.example.com`), or just a wildcard `*`.
  - If you use a wildcard in the host pattern, it must be the first or only character, and it must be followed by a period (`.`) or forward slash (`/`).

> **path**: Must contain at least a forward slash. The slash by itself matches any path, as if it were followed by a wildcard (`/*`).

Reviewer 2: Love it!!! 💯 🤩
